
Third Call for Nominations for IETF Chair, IESG, and IAB Positions.

The Ask!

The 2018-19 Nominating Committee (NomCom) opened the call for nominations on
16 August 2018 and will close nominations on September 30, 2018.  The NomCom
would like to express their gratitude for the response so far!  Keep up the
momentum and continue to nominate high-quality candidates to be leaders in
the IETF community.  This is your chance to ensure the NomCom has a strong 
pool of nominees for the deliberation stage of the process.

Who Has Been Nominated?

Following guidance from previous NomComs, we've decided to publish the
current list of IESG and IAB nominees who have accepted their nominations.
It is our hope that in doing so, we will encourage even more potential
nominees to consider running for a position on one of those bodies.  We are
doing so now so that prospective nominees will have sufficient time to jump
through whatever organizational or personal hoops may be necessary in order
to be able to stand for one of the open positions.

The timeline remains the same: nominations close on September 30th.  Nominee
questionnaires are due by October 5th.  And community feedback will start on
October 6th.  We have decided not to change the feedback start date in order
to give all nominees the potential for the same amount of community
attention, regardless of when they were nominated and accepted the nomination.

Following is a snapshot of the nominees who have accepted their nominations
(sorted by position and then alphabetical by first name):

IAB Position:  (NomCom filling 6 slots)
   * Behcet Sarikaya
   * Brian Haberman
   * Donald Eastlake
   * Jeff Tantsura
   * Niels ten Oever
   * Randy Bush
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Young Lee
   * Zhenbin Li

IETF Chair (Gen AD) Position: (1 slot)
   * Aaron Falk
   * Alissa Cooper

ART AD Position: (1 slot)
   * Barry Leiba
   * Ben Campbell

INT AD Position: (1 slot)
   * Sheng Jiang

Operations AD: (1 slot)
   * Warren Kumari

Routing AD: (2 slots)
   * Alvaro Retana
   * Deborah Brungard

Security AD: (1 slot)
   * Hannes Tschofenig
   * Jim Schaad
   * Rob Austein

Transport AD: (1 slot)
   * Magnus Westerlund

The Details!

The open positions being considered by this year's NomCom can be found at the
end of this email and also on this year's NomCom website: 

https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2018/ 

Nominations may be made by selecting the Nominate link at the top of the 
NomCom 2018 home page, or by visiting the following URL: 

https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2018/nominate/ 

Note:  Nominations made using the web tool require an ietf.org datatracker
account. You can create a datatracker ietf.org account if you don't have one 
already by visiting the following URL: 
https://datatracker.ietf.org/accounts/create/

If you are unable to use the web form, nominations may instead be made by 
email to nomcom-18 at ietf dot org. If using email, please include the word 
"Nominate" in the Subject and indicate in the email who is being nominated, 
their email address (to confirm acceptance of the nomination), and the 
position for which you are making the nomination. If you are nominating 
someone other than yourself, please tell us if we may tell the nominee that 
you were the one who made the nomination. If you wish to nominate someone via 
email for more than one position, please use separate emails to do so. 

Self-nomination is welcome! 

Willing nominees will be asked to fill out a questionnaire specific to the 
position for which they are nominated. The questionnaires will be available 
on August 31, 2018 and have a submission deadline of October 5, 2018. 

NomCom 2018-19 will follow the policy for "Open Disclosure of Willing 
Nominees" described in BCP 10/RFC 7437. As stated in RFC 7437: "The list of 
nominees willing to be considered for positions under review in the current 
NomCom cycle is not confidential". Willing nominees for each position will be 
listed in a publicly accessible way, e.g., anyone with a datatracker account 
may access the lists. Additionally, the nomination form asks if we may share 
your own name with the nominee. In all other ways, the confidentiality 
requirements of BCP 10 remain in effect. All feedback and all NomCom 
deliberations will remain confidential and will not be disclosed. 

There is a field on the form you can mark in order to allow the NomCom to 
tell the nominee that you were the one who made the nomination. This defaults 
to “no” - so if you don't mark the field we won’t tell. 

In order to ensure time to collect sufficient community feedback about each 
of the willing nominees, nominations must be received by the NomCom on or 
before September 30, 2018. 

Please submit your nominations as early as possible for the sake of your 
nominees. Note that nominations should not wait for management permission, as 
it is easier to decline the nomination than put one in late. 

The NomCom appoints individuals to fill the IETF Chair (IESG General AD) and 
the open slots on the IAB and the IESG. The IAOC position is not being filled 
this year, and the call for nominations related to the IETF LLC will be 
coming in the next few weeks. The list of people and posts whose terms end 
with the March 2019 IETF meeting, and thus the positions for which this 
NomCom is responsible, follows: 

IAB 
   - Jari Arkko
   - Gabriel Montenegro
   - Mark Nottingham
   - Robert Sparks*
   - Jeff Tantsura
   - Suzanne Woolf 

IESG Chair
   - Alissa Cooper, GEN (IETF Chair) 

IESG
   - Ben Campbell, ART
   - Terry Manderson, INT *
   - Warren Kumari, OPS
   - Deborah Brungard, RTG
   - Alvaro Retana, RTG
   - Eric Rescorla, SEC
   - Spencer Dawkins, TSV * 

*- have indicated that they do not intend to accept a renomination. This 
information is always up to date on https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2018/ 

Please be resourceful in identifying possible candidates for these positions, 
as developing our talent is a very crucial requirement for the IETF, and 
also, please consider accepting a nomination. You'll find extensive 
information about specific positions, developed by the IAB and IESG under 
individual tabs at: 

https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2018/requirements/ 

In addition to nominations, the NomCom seeks community input on the
incumbents and the positions themselves. We need and welcome the community's
views and input on the jobs within each organization. If you have ideas on
the positions' responsibilities (more, less, different), please let us know. 

Please send suggestions and feedback about this to nomcom-18 at ietf dot org. 

Thank you for your help in identifying qualified nominees! 

regards,
-scott. 

Scott Mansfield
scott dot mansfield at ericsson dot com
nomcom-chair-2018 at ietf dot org 

